---
title: "Dual-graph convolutional network based on band attention and sparse constraint for hyperspectral band selection"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2010-10-01-paper-title-number-2
excerpt: 'JCR Q1'
date: 2021-11-14
venue: 'Knowledge-Based Systems'
# slidesurl: 'http://JiantongChen.github.io/files/slides2.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://JiantongChen.github.io/files/2021-11-14-paper-2.pdf'
citation: 'Feng, J., Ye, Z., Liu, S., Zhang, X., Chen, J., Shang, R., & Jiao, L. (2021). Dual-graph convolutional network based on band attention and sparse constraint for hyperspectral band selection. Knowledge-Based Systems, 231, 107428.'
---
**Abstract**
Band selection is a research hotspot in hyperspectral image processing. The continuity of the spectral bands causes the adjacent bands to be highly correlated, and correlation among long-range bands is possible with hundreds of spectral bands. Most existing deep learning methods fail to make full use of the inter-band correlation for band selection. In this paper, a novel dual-graph convolutional network based on band attention and a sparse constraint is proposed for band selection. The network consists of two branches. In the attention branch, band-based dual graphs are constructed to encode the contextual correlation of adjacent bands and the structural correlation of long-range bands into non-Euclidean space. Subsequently, the graph convolution-based band attention mechanism is devised to aggregate the band information in the band-based dual graphs and to generate the attention map for all bands. The band attention map is sparsely constrained and embedded as a mask into the trunk branch. In the trunk branch, sample-based dual graphs are constructed to represent the topological information of the samples in the spectral and spatial domains. Furthermore, a dense graph convolutional network is designed to extract and fuse the spatial–spectral and topological features from the shallow to deep layers for classification. A soft-shifting optimization strategy is implemented by defining a new loss from full bands and selected bands to solve the optimization problem caused by the sparse constraint. In this manner, band selection, feature extraction, and classification can be combined into an end-to-end trainable network. The experimental results on representative hyperspectral image datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method over current state-of-the-art band selection methods.  
  
**Keywords**: `Graph convolutional network`; `Band selection`; `Hyperspectral image classification`; `Attention mechanism`